add new snapshot spec - main (#6187)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/snapshots.md

| -- | ------ | ---------- | -------------- | ------------ |
| 1 | pending | 2024-01-01 | 2024-01-01 | 2024-01-02 |
| 1 | shipped | 2024-01-02 | 2024-01-02 | `null` |

## Configuring snapshots

:::info Previewing or compiling snapshots in IDE not supported

It is not possible to "preview data" or "compile sql" for snapshots in dbt Cloud. Instead, [run the `dbt snapshot` command](#how-snapshots-work) in the IDE.

:::

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.8" >

- To configure snapshots in versions 1.8 and earlier, refer to [Configure snapshots in versions 1.8 and earlier](#configure-snapshots-in-versions-18-and-earlier). These versions use an older syntax where snapshots are defined within a snapshot block in a `.sql` file, typically located in your `snapshots` directory. 
- Note that defining multiple resources in a single file can significantly slow down parsing and compilation. For faster and more efficient management, consider the updated snapshot YAML syntax, [available in Versionless](/docs/dbt-versions/versionless-cloud) or [dbt Core v1.9 and later](/docs/dbt-versions/core).

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

> In dbt versions 1.9 and later, snapshots are configurations defined in YAML files (typically in your snapshots directory). You'll configure your snapshot to tell dbt how to detect record changes.

Author: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud Versionless and dbt Core v1.9 and later, snapshots are configurations defined in YAML files (typically in your snapshots directory). You'll configure your snapshot to tell dbt how to detect record changes.
```
